suppose you knew someone around the age
of 25 who wanted to transform the world
of architecture someone who's highly
motivated passionate but architecture
someone who felt that all the colleges
teaching architecture and handing out
the credentials necessary to practice in
the field were really teaching a very
corrupt and inadequate form of the art
and science of architecture and that
this young person with their tremendous
vision of a new embedded world was going
to shake things up was going to innovate
it's gonna change things the problem was
this ambitious young person you knew had
never gone to university to study
architecture he or she had just sat in
his own apartment primarily with access
to Google maybe a few books ordered off
amazon.com in the private confines of
his or her own study he or she had
developed some sense of expertise this
happens a lot in the science of
nutrition there are a lot of people who
convince themselves that they have a
vision of human nutrition that's
fundamentally at odds with what is
taught in academia that's fundamentally
incompatible with whatever the process
is to become a formally registered as a
dietician in your country and they get
into their heads that by looking around
the internet and maybe ordering a few
books online they've cultivated
themselves as an expert that they are
now in a position to give advice to
others to sell ebooks to have a youtube
channel to do a podcast to earn money by
doing consultation over Skype or the
hour whatever the case may be they
decide their own expertise is better
than what the respected institutions
have to offer without ever really going
inside those institutions to see what
they're missing on today is the day that
I found out through the wonders of
YouTube that savvy Menka
is ex vegan not only has savvy Menka
gone back to eating meat and eating fish
she has bought into the unbelievable
mythology propounded by ex vegans and
anti vegans here on YouTube the
unbelievable notions about
anti-nutrients lurking in plant foods
just laughable notions about how animal
fat saturated animal fat is supposedly
extraordinarily good for your health
despite mountainous country and savvy
Menka was someone who considered herself
a great expert in the science of
nutrition she was someone who did sell
ebooks and offer advice she was someone
who met me over the internet through
Facebook at a time when she had bless
her heart the self-confidence to
challenge the orthodoxy of freelee and
durianrider and say that the nutritional
advice freelee and durianrider were
giving was wrong wrong wrong you can
live in a society where it's the blind
leading the blind
you can also live in a society where
it's the blind quarreling with and
correcting the blind now savvy Menka
certainly knew enough about nutrition to
see what was glaringly wrong with the
advice being given by Duran freely her
critique of during Ryder freely I quoted
on my own channel and I went much
further in pressing that critique
forward time is maybe five years ago now
when I spoke to Savi was a very
memorable conversation for me I asked
her about the possibility that she would
now go back to college and gain the
formal credentials to practice as a
dietitian as a nutritionist in the
Canadian system it's a government
controlled profession just like being a
nurse or being a surgeon even you have
to get certain credentials in order to
call yourself a dietician and practice
whether that's in a hospital or in
and I talked to her about the long hard
road ahead because you know some of us
would have to go back to high school and
take courses in chemistry we didn't take
and then to chemistry courses in
university yeah it's you know it's it's
partly an art and partly a science
much like much like architecture um but
yeah there are some hard science
requirements to get ahead on that path
and what she told me was she felt that
she knew too much she felt that she was
too advanced already she felt that she
knew more than the instructors in the
university freely felt the same way you
remember have you read or heard some of
those interviews this freely where she's
asked why she didn't get formal
credentials doctrine and she said that
when she went to some school of
nutrition that allegedly she went to at
some point she found that what they were
teaching was so far back in the in the
Dark Ages now again if you were a
visionary young architect who wants to
change the world you might feel that way
about your professors do and you might
feel incredibly self-confident
emboldened just by the independent study
you've done alone at home or in the
library or you might feel your own
critique of what's going on in
architecture as they write this is what
I told Savi at the time you may feel
confident that you already know what's
in that University textbook but the fact
is you haven't read it yet right like I
know that feeling of calm I know what
you're talking about but if you don't
actually enroll in that course or at
least go to that University bookstore
and buy the textbook and read it
yourself if you don't actually get a
copy of the exam what you can do at some
university sometimes without taking the
course you can get a copy of last year's
exam and look at what's on the exam you
can't tell me that you already know
what's on the exam and if you really do
have this background if you really do
know more than the professors if you
really do already know what's in the
textbook and what's in the exam then it
should be a joy for you to jump through
those hoops right it should be a
relaxing enjoyable process for you to
show up and prepare and write those
and have that experience because you are
as you claim so far beyond the
professors but what I suspect is this if
you make that effort if you actually
roll in the courses if you actually
start studying at the University what
you're gonna find is that your own
knowledge and expertise is narrow but
deep that there have been a few things
that interested you personally there
have been a few topics that you were
passionate about that you paid
tremendous attention to and that you
work very hard on but then there were
broader questions that are important for
the dis one as a whole that you never
answered and that you don't know the
answers to right that there are various
kinds of boring but necessary practical
knowledge and experience that you
haven't been rehearsing that you haven't
you know you may have very very strong
feelings about architecture but then if
I ask you what is the maximum size of
swimming pool that I can put on the
twelfth floor of this building without
the weight of the swimming pool causing
a problem for the columns how do you
calculate the distribution of the weight
on that floor with sueing pool that's
the kind of technical somewhat boring
problem that may be on your exam if
you're studying architecture and where
there's a lot of reading and a lot of
research and a lot of preparation and a
lot of kind of nonspecific competency
that you in the privacy of your own home
in the pursuit of your own passions you
probably will not have researched those
things you probably will not have tested
yourself in that way by the same token
if you became passionate about how
eating red meat causes heart disease you
might have researched that tremendous
detail
now again Savi Mecca is one example
somebody like vegan gains is another
example he researched some isolated
issues like this in great detail the
relationship between animal fat
consumption and heart disease okay you
might go into the university and find
that you know more about these specific
issues that you were deeply passionate
about you might find that you know more
about them
than the professor and you might know
more about those specific issues than
will be in the textbook or test on the
exam but then they're going to be so
many other issues that you don't care
about that you didn't even think to
investigator research and those are
covered in the textbook those are in the
exam and they're part of the reason why
we have this kind of formal educational
requirement for your comp to ensure your
competence to ensure public safety
before you can you know practice as a
dietitian as a nutritionist or before
you can become an architect who designs
a building with a swimming pool on the
20th floor that could well collapse and
kill all the people who are living with
it okay hmm your ability to make a
positive difference in the world your
ability as an activist as a creative
artist as an intellectual it hinges on
having these paper credentials your
ability to influence the future of
nutrition and dietetics as a field of
the sciences as you know as a service
industry even your your ability to
influence the future of nutrition
Dietetics rests on you having this this
kind of paper credential your ability to
be a part of the debates about what the
future of architecture should be you
can't really be a part of that debate
you can't contest the future of
architecture without proving you know
what's in that text book without sitting
down and in writing that exam and you
know life is long but I know just how
hard it is to commit to getting another
BA to commit to getting a master's
degree to commit to getting these kinds
of credentials
especially when it's linked to this kind
of aspirational activism and I know how
hard it is to compare those long years
of boring humiliating work getting
university credentials to compare that
to the instant gratification of
uploading your lecture about meat eating
and heart disease hum to YouTube and
maybe not just immediately getting
positive comments back and fan mail but
maybe also you're making money maybe
you're selling t-shirts maybe your cell
ebooks maybe you're selling you know
PDFs with your advice or Skype coaching
or whatever it is maybe money starts
rolling in in addition to fame and an
appreciation and all those students who
are sitting there studying that textbook
and preparing for that exam they get
absolutely none of that but the
fragility of the vegan movement in the
year 2020
can't you just feel it can't you just
feel that you've got this bronze statue
standing on feet of clay precisely
because like the best and the brightest
people in the vegan movement were people
like savvy Menka who were self-made
experts who didn't have these
credentials like I can't say savvy was
one of the worse that she was one of the
best she was one of the people who stood
up to freelee and durianrider and said
no more she was one of the people who
stood up and said no I did the math I
did the fact-checking I got that book
off the library shelf and I read the
sources you were citing and quoting and
I found that what you were saying is
wrong wrong wrong you're giving people a
formula for weight gain and you're
selling it as weight loss and you're
misrepresenting the vegan diet and this
is all pseudoscience she was right and
in her small way she was a heroic figure
in the movement at that point right but
what she didn't have was any actual
depth of confidence
what what she had was the product of her
personal passions just like some kid
who's into architecture and only reads
about the things that fascinate him
right
she didn't build up that generalized
foundation of real competence in
nutritional science and so here we are
just a few years later and she had a few
episodes of irritable bowel syndrome or
some kind of digestive problem and she
gets her head turned around by a new
category of pseudo-scientific hype on
the internet the same way that once many
years before she was drawn in by freelee
and durianrider before she debunked them
and refuted them now she's been drawn in
by these excuses for saturated animal
fat and the notion that animal protein
is somehow superior to vegetable protein
so on and so forth all the usual excuses
and they're the same excuses
that she seemed to be wise enough to
criticize and reject just a few years
ago I don't know what the future of the
vegan movement is but it's been my role
for more than five years now to come on
YouTube and point my finger and say not
this was nice knowing you savvy Menka
now savanah Stanhope
the future of veganism is not you